docs/environments/magento2.md, before:

# Installing Magento 2

The below example demonstrates the from-scratch setup of the Magento 2 application for local development. A similar process can easily be used to configure an environment of any other type. This assumes that Den has been previously started via `den svc up` as part of the installation procedure.

:::{note}
In addition to the below manual process, there is a [Github Template available for Magento 2](https://github.com/wardenenv/warden-env-magento2) allowing for quick setup of new Magento projects. To use this, click the green "Use this template" button to create your own repository based on the template repository, run the init script and update the README with any project specific information.
:::

1.  Create a new directory on your host machine at the location of your choice and then jump into the new directory to get started:

        mkdir -p ~/Sites/exampleproject
        cd ~/Sites/exampleproject

2.  From the root of your new project directory, run `env-init` to create the `.env` file with configuration needed for Den and Docker to work with the project.

        den env-init exampleproject magento2

    The result of this command is a `.env` file in the project root (tip: commit this to your VCS to share the configuration with other team members) having the following contents:

        WARDEN_ENV_NAME=exampleproject
        WARDEN_ENV_TYPE=magento2
        WARDEN_WEB_ROOT=/

        TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=exampleproject.test
        TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN=app

        WARDEN_DB=1
        WARDEN_ELASTICSEARCH=1
        WARDEN_ELASTICHQ=0
        WARDEN_VARNISH=1
        WARDEN_RABBITMQ=1
        WARDEN_REDIS=1

        WARDEN_SYNC_IGNORE=

        ELASTICSEARCH_VERSION=7.6
        DB_DISTRIBUTION=mariadb
        DB_DISTRIBUTION_VERSION=10.3
        NODE_VERSION=12
        COMPOSER_VERSION=2.2
        PHP_VERSION=7.3
        PHP_XDEBUG_3=1
        RABBITMQ_VERSION=3.8
        REDIS_VERSION=5.0
        VARNISH_VERSION=6.0

        WARDEN_ALLURE=0
        WARDEN_SELENIUM=0
        WARDEN_SELENIUM_DEBUG=0
        WARDEN_BLACKFIRE=0
        WARDEN_SPLIT_SALES=0
        WARDEN_SPLIT_CHECKOUT=0
        WARDEN_TEST_DB=0
        WARDEN_MAGEPACK=0

        BLACKFIRE_CLIENT_ID=
        BLACKFIRE_CLIENT_TOKEN=
        BLACKFIRE_SERVER_ID=
        BLACKFIRE_SERVER_TOKEN=

3.  Sign an SSL certificate for use with the project (the input here should match the value of `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN` in the above `.env` example file):

        den sign-certificate exampleproject.test

4.  Next you'll want to start the project environment:

        den env up

    :::{warning}
    If you encounter an error about ``Mounts denied``, follow the instructions in the error message and run ``den env up`` again.
    :::

5.  Drop into a shell within the project environment. Commands following this step in the setup procedure will be run from within the `php-fpm` docker container this launches you into:

        den shell

6.  Configure global Magento Marketplace credentials

    	composer global config http-basic.repo.magento.com <username> <password>

    :::{note}
    To locate your authentication keys for Magento 2 repository, `reference DevDocs <https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/install-gde/prereq/connect-auth.html>`_.

    If you have previously configured global credentials, you may skip this step, as ``~/.composer/`` is mounted into the container from the host machine in order to share composer cache between projects, and also shares the global ``auth.json`` from the host machine.

    Use the **Public key** as your username and the **Private key** as your password.
    :::

7.  Initialize project source files using composer create-project and then move them into place:

        META_PACKAGE=magento/project-community-edition META_VERSION=2.4.x

        composer create-project --repository-url=https://repo.magento.com/ \
            "${META_PACKAGE}" /tmp/exampleproject "${META_VERSION}"

        rsync -a /tmp/exampleproject/ /var/www/html/
        rm -rf /tmp/exampleproject/

8.  Install the application and you should be all set:

        ## Install Application
        bin/magento setup:install \
            --backend-frontname=backend \
            --amqp-host=rabbitmq \
            --amqp-port=5672 \
            --amqp-user=guest \
            --amqp-password=guest \
            --db-host=db \
            --db-name=magento \
            --db-user=magento \
            --db-password=magento \
            --search-engine=elasticsearch7 \
            --elasticsearch-host=elasticsearch \
            --elasticsearch-port=9200 \
            --elasticsearch-index-prefix=magento2 \
            --elasticsearch-enable-auth=0 \
            --elasticsearch-timeout=15 \
            --http-cache-hosts=varnish:80 \
            --session-save=redis \
            --session-save-redis-host=redis \
            --session-save-redis-port=6379 \
            --session-save-redis-db=2 \
            --session-save-redis-max-concurrency=20 \
            --cache-backend=redis \
            --cache-backend-redis-server=redis \
            --cache-backend-redis-db=0 \
            --cache-backend-redis-port=6379 \
            --page-cache=redis \
            --page-cache-redis-server=redis \
            --page-cache-redis-db=1 \
            --page-cache-redis-port=6379

        ## Configure Application
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/unsecure/base_url \
            "https://${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}/"

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/base_url \
            "https://${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}/"

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/offloader_header X-Forwarded-Proto

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/use_in_frontend 1
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/use_in_adminhtml 1
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/seo/use_rewrites 1

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env system/full_page_cache/caching_application 2
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env system/full_page_cache/ttl 604800

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/enable_eav_indexer 1

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env dev/static/sign 0

        bin/magento deploy:mode:set -s developer
        bin/magento cache:disable block_html full_page

        bin/magento indexer:reindex
        bin/magento cache:flush

    :::{note}
    Prior to Magento ``2.4.x`` it was not required to enter search-engine and elasticsearch configuration during installation and these params to ``setup:install`` are not supported by Magento ``2.3.x``. These should be omitted on older versions where not supported and Elasticsearch configured via ``config:set`` instead:

    ```bash
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/engine elasticsearch7
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_server_hostname elasticsearch
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_server_port 9200
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_index_prefix magento2
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_enable_auth 0
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_server_timeout 15
    ```    
    :::

9.  Generate an admin user and configure 2FA for OTP

        ## Generate localadmin user
        ADMIN_PASS="$(pwgen -n1 16)"
        ADMIN_USER=localadmin

        bin/magento admin:user:create \
            --admin-password="${ADMIN_PASS}" \
            --admin-user="${ADMIN_USER}" \
            --admin-firstname="Local" \
            --admin-lastname="Admin" \
            --admin-email="${ADMIN_USER}@example.com"
        printf "u: %s\np: %s\n" "${ADMIN_USER}" "${ADMIN_PASS}"

        ## Configure 2FA provider
        OTPAUTH_QRI=
        TFA_SECRET=$(python -c "import base64; print base64.b32encode('$(pwgen -A1 128)')" | sed 's/=*$//')
        OTPAUTH_URL=$(printf "otpauth://totp/%s%%3Alocaladmin%%40example.com?issuer=%s&secret=%s" \
            "${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}" "${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}" "${TFA_SECRET}"
        )

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env twofactorauth/general/force_providers google
        bin/magento security:tfa:google:set-secret "${ADMIN_USER}" "${TFA_SECRET}"

        printf "%s\n\n" "${OTPAUTH_URL}"
        printf "2FA Authenticator Codes:\n%s\n" "$(oathtool -s 30 -w 10 --totp --base32 "${TFA_SECRET}")"

        segno "${OTPAUTH_URL}" -s 4 -o "pub/media/${ADMIN_USER}-totp-qr.png"
        printf "%s\n\n" "https://${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}/media/${ADMIN_USER}-totp-qr.png?t=$(date +%s)"

    :::{note}
    Use of 2FA is mandatory on Magento ``2.4.x`` and setup of 2FA should be skipped when installing ``2.3.x`` or earlier. Where 2FA is setup manually via UI upon login rather than using the CLI commands above, the 2FA configuration email may be retrieved from `the Mailhog service <https://mailhog.den.test/>`_.
    :::

10. Launch the application in your browser:

    - [https://app.exampleproject.test/](https://app.exampleproject.test/)
    - [https://app.exampleproject.test/backend/](https://app.exampleproject.test/backend/)
    - [https://rabbitmq.exampleproject.test/](https://rabbitmq.exampleproject.test/)
    - [https://elasticsearch.exampleproject.test/](https://elasticsearch.exampleproject.test/)

:::{note}
To completely destroy the ``exampleproject`` environment we just created, run ``den env down -v`` to tear down the project's Docker containers, volumes, etc.
:::

Commit message:

Add note about OpenSearch hostname
Fixes #186 

Signed-off-by: Navarr Barnier <navarr@swiftotter.com>

docs/environments/magento2.md, after:

# Installing Magento 2

The below example demonstrates the from-scratch setup of the Magento 2 application for local development. A similar process can easily be used to configure an environment of any other type. This assumes that Den has been previously started via `den svc up` as part of the installation procedure.

:::{note}
In addition to the below manual process, there is a [Github Template available for Magento 2](https://github.com/wardenenv/warden-env-magento2) allowing for quick setup of new Magento projects. To use this, click the green "Use this template" button to create your own repository based on the template repository, run the init script and update the README with any project specific information.
:::

1.  Create a new directory on your host machine at the location of your choice and then jump into the new directory to get started:

        mkdir -p ~/Sites/exampleproject
        cd ~/Sites/exampleproject

2.  From the root of your new project directory, run `env-init` to create the `.env` file with configuration needed for Den and Docker to work with the project.

        den env-init exampleproject magento2

    The result of this command is a `.env` file in the project root (tip: commit this to your VCS to share the configuration with other team members) having the following contents:

        WARDEN_ENV_NAME=exampleproject
        WARDEN_ENV_TYPE=magento2
        WARDEN_WEB_ROOT=/

        TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=exampleproject.test
        TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN=app

        WARDEN_DB=1
        WARDEN_ELASTICSEARCH=1
        WARDEN_ELASTICHQ=0
        WARDEN_VARNISH=1
        WARDEN_RABBITMQ=1
        WARDEN_REDIS=1

        WARDEN_SYNC_IGNORE=

        ELASTICSEARCH_VERSION=7.6
        DB_DISTRIBUTION=mariadb
        DB_DISTRIBUTION_VERSION=10.3
        NODE_VERSION=12
        COMPOSER_VERSION=2.2
        PHP_VERSION=7.3
        PHP_XDEBUG_3=1
        RABBITMQ_VERSION=3.8
        REDIS_VERSION=5.0
        VARNISH_VERSION=6.0

        WARDEN_ALLURE=0
        WARDEN_SELENIUM=0
        WARDEN_SELENIUM_DEBUG=0
        WARDEN_BLACKFIRE=0
        WARDEN_SPLIT_SALES=0
        WARDEN_SPLIT_CHECKOUT=0
        WARDEN_TEST_DB=0
        WARDEN_MAGEPACK=0

        BLACKFIRE_CLIENT_ID=
        BLACKFIRE_CLIENT_TOKEN=
        BLACKFIRE_SERVER_ID=
        BLACKFIRE_SERVER_TOKEN=

3.  Sign an SSL certificate for use with the project (the input here should match the value of `TRAEFIK_DOMAIN` in the above `.env` example file):

        den sign-certificate exampleproject.test

4.  Next you'll want to start the project environment:

        den env up

    :::{warning}
    If you encounter an error about ``Mounts denied``, follow the instructions in the error message and run ``den env up`` again.
    :::

5.  Drop into a shell within the project environment. Commands following this step in the setup procedure will be run from within the `php-fpm` docker container this launches you into:

        den shell

6.  Configure global Magento Marketplace credentials

    	composer global config http-basic.repo.magento.com <username> <password>

    :::{note}
    To locate your authentication keys for Magento 2 repository, `reference DevDocs <https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/install-gde/prereq/connect-auth.html>`_.

    If you have previously configured global credentials, you may skip this step, as ``~/.composer/`` is mounted into the container from the host machine in order to share composer cache between projects, and also shares the global ``auth.json`` from the host machine.

    Use the **Public key** as your username and the **Private key** as your password.
    :::

7.  Initialize project source files using composer create-project and then move them into place:

        META_PACKAGE=magento/project-community-edition META_VERSION=2.4.x

        composer create-project --repository-url=https://repo.magento.com/ \
            "${META_PACKAGE}" /tmp/exampleproject "${META_VERSION}"

        rsync -a /tmp/exampleproject/ /var/www/html/
        rm -rf /tmp/exampleproject/

8.  Install the application and you should be all set:

    :::{note}
    If you are using OpenSearch instead of ElasticSearch, use `--elasticsearch-host=opensearch` instead of `--elasticsearch-host=elasticsearch`.
    :::

        ## Install Application
        bin/magento setup:install \
            --backend-frontname=backend \
            --amqp-host=rabbitmq \
            --amqp-port=5672 \
            --amqp-user=guest \
            --amqp-password=guest \
            --db-host=db \
            --db-name=magento \
            --db-user=magento \
            --db-password=magento \
            --search-engine=elasticsearch7 \
            --elasticsearch-host=elasticsearch \
            --elasticsearch-port=9200 \
            --elasticsearch-index-prefix=magento2 \
            --elasticsearch-enable-auth=0 \
            --elasticsearch-timeout=15 \
            --http-cache-hosts=varnish:80 \
            --session-save=redis \
            --session-save-redis-host=redis \
            --session-save-redis-port=6379 \
            --session-save-redis-db=2 \
            --session-save-redis-max-concurrency=20 \
            --cache-backend=redis \
            --cache-backend-redis-server=redis \
            --cache-backend-redis-db=0 \
            --cache-backend-redis-port=6379 \
            --page-cache=redis \
            --page-cache-redis-server=redis \
            --page-cache-redis-db=1 \
            --page-cache-redis-port=6379

        ## Configure Application
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/unsecure/base_url \
            "https://${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}/"

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/base_url \
            "https://${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}/"

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/offloader_header X-Forwarded-Proto

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/use_in_frontend 1
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/secure/use_in_adminhtml 1
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env web/seo/use_rewrites 1

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env system/full_page_cache/caching_application 2
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env system/full_page_cache/ttl 604800

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/enable_eav_indexer 1

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env dev/static/sign 0

        bin/magento deploy:mode:set -s developer
        bin/magento cache:disable block_html full_page

        bin/magento indexer:reindex
        bin/magento cache:flush

    :::{note}
    Prior to Magento ``2.4.x`` it was not required to enter search-engine and elasticsearch configuration during installation and these params to ``setup:install`` are not supported by Magento ``2.3.x``. These should be omitted on older versions where not supported and Elasticsearch configured via ``config:set`` instead:

    ```bash
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/engine elasticsearch7
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_server_hostname elasticsearch
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_server_port 9200
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_index_prefix magento2
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_enable_auth 0
        bin/magento config:set --lock-env catalog/search/elasticsearch7_server_timeout 15
    ```    
    :::

9.  Generate an admin user and configure 2FA for OTP

        ## Generate localadmin user
        ADMIN_PASS="$(pwgen -n1 16)"
        ADMIN_USER=localadmin

        bin/magento admin:user:create \
            --admin-password="${ADMIN_PASS}" \
            --admin-user="${ADMIN_USER}" \
            --admin-firstname="Local" \
            --admin-lastname="Admin" \
            --admin-email="${ADMIN_USER}@example.com"
        printf "u: %s\np: %s\n" "${ADMIN_USER}" "${ADMIN_PASS}"

        ## Configure 2FA provider
        OTPAUTH_QRI=
        TFA_SECRET=$(python -c "import base64; print base64.b32encode('$(pwgen -A1 128)')" | sed 's/=*$//')
        OTPAUTH_URL=$(printf "otpauth://totp/%s%%3Alocaladmin%%40example.com?issuer=%s&secret=%s" \
            "${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}" "${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}" "${TFA_SECRET}"
        )

        bin/magento config:set --lock-env twofactorauth/general/force_providers google
        bin/magento security:tfa:google:set-secret "${ADMIN_USER}" "${TFA_SECRET}"

        printf "%s\n\n" "${OTPAUTH_URL}"
        printf "2FA Authenticator Codes:\n%s\n" "$(oathtool -s 30 -w 10 --totp --base32 "${TFA_SECRET}")"

        segno "${OTPAUTH_URL}" -s 4 -o "pub/media/${ADMIN_USER}-totp-qr.png"
        printf "%s\n\n" "https://${TRAEFIK_SUBDOMAIN}.${TRAEFIK_DOMAIN}/media/${ADMIN_USER}-totp-qr.png?t=$(date +%s)"

    :::{note}
    Use of 2FA is mandatory on Magento ``2.4.x`` and setup of 2FA should be skipped when installing ``2.3.x`` or earlier. Where 2FA is setup manually via UI upon login rather than using the CLI commands above, the 2FA configuration email may be retrieved from `the Mailhog service <https://mailhog.den.test/>`_.
    :::

10. Launch the application in your browser:

    - [https://app.exampleproject.test/](https://app.exampleproject.test/)
    - [https://app.exampleproject.test/backend/](https://app.exampleproject.test/backend/)
    - [https://rabbitmq.exampleproject.test/](https://rabbitmq.exampleproject.test/)
    - [https://elasticsearch.exampleproject.test/](https://elasticsearch.exampleproject.test/)

:::{note}
To completely destroy the ``exampleproject`` environment we just created, run ``den env down -v`` to tear down the project's Docker containers, volumes, etc.
:::
